# bcg


basic clicking game / bcg is a Roblox game made in Luau inspired by games like Cookie Clicker and Everything Upgrade Tree. bcg is a simple, modular clicker/incremental game made in under 3,000 LOC.

Use it as a template or anything, really. I'm using this repo to learn more about versioning in Git.

Features:
- modular upgrades, badges and multiplier config
- robust data saving based on ProfileStore (thankyou loleris)
- numbers up to 10↑↑2^1024 using GammaNum (thankyou Valkzius)
- modify players' currency securely and easily with integrated Cmdr
- efficient click calculation handling with caching
- serverside debounce

Generated by [Rojo](https://github.com/rojo-rbx/rojo) 7.5.1.

## how to build
To build the place from scratch, use:

```bash
rojo build -o "bcg.rbxlx"
```

Next, open `bcg.rbxlx` in Roblox Studio and start the Rojo server:

```bash
rojo serve
```

For more help, check out [the Rojo documentation](https://rojo.space/docs).


# key formulas

bcg uses many formulas for the different upgrades ingame. Here are the main ones for levels and rebirths.

## levels

$$E = 1.3 + \frac{(\log_{10}(\text{level}))^2}{10}$$
$$\text{Cost} = \lfloor 10 \times \text{level}^E \rfloor$$

* **level**: the level that you want to find the cost for, which ingame is the player's current level + 1.
* **E**: the scaling exponent (starts at 1.3 and grows logarithmically).
* **$\lfloor \dots \rfloor$**: floor function, rounds to nearest integer.

10 is the base cost of Level 2.\
The levelling cost formula is found in [LevelCost.luau](src/shared/Modules/UpgradeFormulas/LevelCost.luau)

## rebirths

$$\text{level} = \min\left(1000000,\text{round}(100 \times 1.25^R)\right)$$

* **level**: the level required to rebirth.
* **R**: the current amount of rebirths the player has.

100 is the base level for Rebirths, increasing 25% each time and capping at level 1,000,000.\
The level calculation formula for Rebirths is found in [GameUtils.luau](src/shared/Modules/GameUtils.luau)


# upgrades
Upgrades are found in [UpgradeConfig.luau](src/shared/Modules/UpgradeConfig.luau)  
Upgrade cost formulas are found in the [UpgradeFormulas folder](src/shared/Modules/UpgradeFormulas/)  
Associated upgrade multiplier formulas are found in [ClickCalculationManager.luau](src/server/storage/Modules/ClickCalculationManager.luau)

The current upgrades (excluding Levels) are:
* Format: Internal Name (User-facing name)
* AutoClicker (Autoclicker #)
* TimePlayed (The Long Game)
* ReduceLevelCost (Deflation)
* ClickMultiplier ((#+1)x Clicks)
* BaseBoost (Back to Basics)
* Recursion (Recursion)
* Exponents (Exponents!)
* Base2 (Base 2)
* RemoveClickDebounce (Freedom)
* PyramidScheme (Pyramid Scheme)
* ExponentRecursion (Recursion 2)
* ServerAge (Old is Gold)

Some upgrades do not have cost formulas due to them being single/boolean upgrades:
* RemoveClickDebounce: 50,000 clicks
* PyramidScheme: 1,000,000 clicks
* ExponentRecursion: 1,000,000,000 clicks
* ServerAge: 250,000 clicks
* LevelMultibuy: 25,000 clicks (not implemented yet)

Upgrades that don't have either a cost / multiplier formula are not listed below.  
$$\text{T} = \text{Current tier}$$

#### AutoClicker
Upgrade Type: Tiered  

$$\text{Cost} = 50 \times 10^T$$

#### TimePlayed
Upgrade Type: Tiered  
Multiplier Type: Final  

$$\text{Cost} = 5000$$
$$\text{Multiplier} = 1 + \frac{\sqrt{seconds}}{30} \times \frac{T}{2}$$

#### ReduceLevelCost
Upgrade Type: Tiered  

$$\text{Cost} = 1000 \times 1000^T$$  
$$\text{FinalLevelCost} = \text{Level Formula} \times \frac{100 - T}{100}$$

*See the [Level formula](#levels) for the base calculation.*

#### ClickMultiplier
Upgrade Type: Tiered  
Multiplier Type: Final  

$$\text{Cost} = 100 \times 10^T$$
$$\text{Multiplier} = 1 + T$$

#### BaseBoost
Upgrade Type: Finite  
Multiplier Type: Base  

$$\text{Cost} = 500 \times 2^T$$
$$\text{Multiplier} = 5 \times T$$

#### Recursion
Upgrade Type: Tiered  
Multiplier Type: Final  

$$\text{Cost} = 10000 \times 50^T$$
$$\text{Multiplier} = 1 + \left( \log_{10}(\text{Clicks}) \times \frac{T}{20} \right)$$

#### Exponents
Upgrade Type: Tiered  
Multiplier Type: Exponent... say wallahi bro  

$$\text{Cost} = 1000000 \times 1000^T$$
$$\text{Exponent} = 0.05 \times T$$

#### Base2
Upgrade Type: Infinite  
Multiplier Type: Base  

$$\text{Cost} = 256 \times 2^T$$

#### PyramidScheme
Upgrade Type: Single  
Multiplier Type: Exponent  

$$\text{Cost} = 1000000$$
$$\text{Exponent} = 0.01 \times \text{Players}$$

#### ExponentRecursion
Upgrade Type: Single  
Multiplier Type: Exponent  

$$\text{Cost} = 1000000000$$
$$\text{Exponent} = \frac{\log_{10}(\text{Clicks})}{100}$$

#### ServerAge
Upgrade Type: Single  
Multiplier Type: Final

$$\text{Cost} = 250000$$
$$\text{Exponent} = \frac{\log_{10}(\text{seconds})}{2}$$

SIX SEVEN!

All commits made using Claude, an artifical intelligence software, are marked on commits with "claude:" prepending the commit information.
